### W12 - D3 Design space exploration


*Design space exploration may be defined as “the task to explore the set of feasible implementations efficiently and finding not only one of these, but many and also optimal ones”.*

*This may be considered as a threefold problem involving the main aspects indicated below. Briefly explain the scope of each one of them, and clarify if they relate solely to the HW development tasks, to the SW development tasks, or to both.*

----
#### 1. Exploration cost and exploration strategies (algorithms): 
Any known search technique might be applied to find feasible implementation candidates for single-objective function:
* Randomized search techniques
* Techniques relying on iterative improvement such as simulated annealing,
* Exact techniques based on integer-linear program (ILP) formulations.
----
#### 2. Multiobjective nature and evaluation of nonfunctional properties

For two or more objectives such as cost and performance, one must provide a weighting function to combine both objectives into one function. Population-based approaches that simultaneously scan the search space such as evolutionary algorithms, Special Pareto-front exploring evolutionary algorithms such as SPEA2 and NSGA-II have been tuned to explore Pareto-optimal quality sets for system-level synthesis problems very efficiently. Here, the dimensionality (number of objectives) as well as the so-called evaluation functions for each design objective may be chosen deliberately and, in a user-specific way.

----

#### 3. How to flexibly evaluate the quality of a design point?

For a FPGA target for system implementation, the cost objectives could be the number of logic gates, flip flops and RAMs used together with two performance objectives such as throughput and clock rate of the synthesized system.​ For evaluation of these systems, the model might be annotated and used to write user-specific cost functions. Alternatively, a synthesis or estimation tool for each objective might be used such as a worst-case execution time (WCET) estimation tool for determining the WCET of a task when mapped to a certain processor resource. The acceptance of design space exploration tools depends greatly on the flexibility of customizability and automatic integration of user- and system-specific evaluator functions and a highly efficient exploration kernel.

