### W07-D1 Napoleon's cipher: Strength of the key

*Consider an early Napoleon’s cipher that uses a matrix with 27 lines and 27 columns, laying out the 26 letters 'a-z'. To 
encrypt a message, locate its first letter in the first line, proceed downwards until you find the first letter of your key, 
then proceed to the right until the last column where you’ll find the letter to use in your ciphered message. Move on to the 
second letter and repeat the procedure. And likewise until the message is completely ciphered.*

----

#### 1. Will the encryption method become weaker if the length of the key is reduced? Why?

>***Answer***

Quick answer: the length of the key should be longer than or equal to the message. If the key is short (e.g. 3 letters) then it's easier to discover a pattern.


>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_strength

A random password's information entropy, `H`, is given by the formula:

`H=L*log_2(N)`, where `N` is the number of possible symbols, we have `N=26`, `L` is the "length" or the amount of symbols used in our key.

* `L = 10 -> H = 47 bits`
* `L = 5 -> H = 23.5 bits`


If we specify key strength in terms of information entropy which is measured in bits, a key with an entropy of 47 bits would be as strong as a string of 47 bits chosen randomly, i.e. a key with an entropy of 47 bits would require `2^47` (`~1.41^14`) attempts to exhaust all possibilities during a brute force search. Thus, by increasing the entropy of the key by one bit the number of guesses required doubles, making an attacker's task twice as difficult.

#### 2. What would be an acceptable length in the case of an FPGA implementation?

>***Answer***

*I assume this questions asks how strong the key has to be in order to withstand a brute-force attack by a FPGA.*

>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brute-force_attack

The resources required for a brute-force attack grow exponentially with increasing key size. Modern symmetric algorithms typically use computationally 128- to 256-bit keys.

There is a physical argument that a 128-bit symmetric key is computationally secure against brute-force attack. The so-called Landauer limit implied by the laws of physics sets a lower limit on the energy required to perform a computation of `kT*ln(2)` per bit erased in a computation, where `T` is the temperature of the computing device in kelvins, and `k` is the Boltzmann constant. No irreversible computing device can use less energy than this, even in principle.

Thus, in order to simply flip through the possible values for a 128-bit symmetric key would, theoretically, require `2^(128) − 1` bit flips on a conventional processor. If the calculation occurs near room temperature (~300 K), the Von Neumann-Landauer Limit can be applied to estimate the energy required as `~10^18` joules, which is equivalent to consuming `30 GW` of power for 1 year. This is equal to 262.7 TWh (more than 1% of the world energy production). The full actual computation – checking each key to see if a solution has been found – would consume many times this amount. Furthermore, this is simply the energy requirement for cycling through the key space; the actual time it takes to flip each bit is not considered.

`H=128=L*log_2(26) -> L = 128*(log(2)/log(26)) = 27.2`, a key length > 27.2 symbols would be an acceptable length in the case of an FPGA implementation.
