## W7-D2 Napoleon's cipher: Switch-defined key

Consider an early Napoleon’s cipher that uses a matrix with 27 lines and 27 columns, laying out the 26 letters a-z. To encrypt a message, locate its first letter in the first line, proceed downwards until you find the first letter of your key, then proceed to the right until the last column where you’ll find the letter to use in your ciphered message. Move on to the second letter and repeat the procedure. And likewise until the message is completely ciphered.

----

#### 1. Would it be possible to use as key the position of the 8 switches located in the Basys-3 board (instead of a sequence of ASCII codes as represented above)? In case your answer is yes, would that solution provide a stronger cipher than the example key: `“JeanJacquesRousseau”`?

>***Answer***

It is possible to use on-board switches but, 8 switches translated into binary is 8 bits, which is equivalent to 1 `char`. There are `2^8` (256) different possible values for 8 bits. Assuming that the length of the new key is equal to 8 bits, i.e. the current key is equal to the current value of the 8 switches; then the original cipher key (`“JeanJacquesRousseau”`) will be much stronger than the key defined by the 8 switches on board.

There are multiple alternatives using the 8 switches in different ways. Here are two examples:
* They could represent the most significant bits in a 13-bit address -- in which case each we might have 256 different keys stored in ROM, each comprising 32 characters.
* They could be used to define the seed number of a pseudo-random sequence generated by a linear feedback shift register  (LSFR), of which we might select the first 32 codes to define our key.
