### W04-D4 Music box: ASMD chart analysis


The ASMD chart shown below represents one possible solution to a music box with the following characteristics:

* The melody to be played is stored in RAM as a sequence of ASCII codes.

* All ASCII codes to be stored in RAM are received serially via RS-232.

* Each musical note belonging to octaves 4 or 5 is represented by one ASCII code.

* Specific codes are used to mark the start-of-melody (`“|”`) and end-of-melody (`“]`).

* The melody stored in RAM will be played when a Play button is pushed.


----

#### 1. Would it be possible to merge the first two states (`init` and `check_for_ABC`), by moving the `abus <= “0...0”` statement to the state box of the `init` state, and the decision box of `check_for_ABC` into that same state? Draw the resulting new state if yes, or explain why if no.



----

#### 2. Can we initiate the reception of a new melody (sequence of ASCII codes) while the current melody is being played? If your answer is no, how would you modify the ASMD chart in order to enable it? 

----


#### 3. If a user makes a mistake when typing a sequence of keys (musical notes), he might want to restart by pressing the start-of-melody key (`“|”`), and beginning the sequence again. Will happen in such a case, according to the ASMD chart shown above? How would you modify the ASMD chart in order to enable this feature?


----

#### 4. Will we be able to listen to the melody being downloaded as each new ASCII code is received, according to the ASMD chart shown above? How would this be possible, if your answer is no?




